
        Welcome to the Geotools introductory demonstration application.

This Geotools module, demo/introduction, includes a simple graphical application 
which introduces the Geotools library by using many of its sub-systems. 




About this demonstration:
------------------------

This demonstatration has been written to be read: it should be easily legible 
and it includes extensive comments in order to serve as an introduction for new 
programmers wishing to understand Geotools.

The functionality of the demonstration application is limited. The application 
opens a graphical user interface window which contains a column of buttons on 
the left hand side. The buttons can be clicked in sequence to perform a sequence
of commands each of which illustrates the use of part of the Geotools library.




Running the demonstration application:
-------------------------------------

The demonstration application can be run either
    * from a binary distribution which contains the entire library as JAR files 
    * from a source distribution which has subsequently been compiled
    * from a subversion repository checkout which has been complied
with the former being the easiest. 

A Java Runtime Environment (JRE) and two extension libaries are required to run 
the demonstration application. The JRE must conform to version 1.4 or newer. The 
Java Advanced Imaging (JAI) and the Java Image IO extensions must be installed 
*into* the JRE.

The JAVA_HOME environmental variable must be set to point to the top level 
directory of the JRE. For ease, the PATH environmental variable should include 
the directory containing the java binary 'java'. 

The demonstration application can be run with the command:

  java -jar gt-demo-introduction-2.4-SNAPSHOT.jar

for a binary distribution where the command is run in the directory containing 
all of the Java archive (JAR) files. Alternatively, in a source or subversion 
directory, after compilation with the 

  mvn install
  
command, the demonstration application can be run with the command:

  java -jar target/gt-demo-introduction-2.4-SNAPSHOT.jar

where the version number, here 2.4-SNAPSHOT' might be different such as '2.4.1' 
depending on the actual version of the Geotools library which is being used. 




Known issues in the 2.4.0 release:
---------------------------------

  * Buttons are not all the same size
  * Text area does not scroll as new text is added
  * Countries.sld looks for a font that does not necessarily exist
  * The projection causes certain geometries to disappear.
  * Lots of routines are missing; some buttons do nothing.
  
  
  

License:
-------
  This code is placed in the public domain. 

  Note that this is different from the Geotools library code itself which is 
  licensed under the terms of the "Lesser General Public License (LGPL)".



Enjoy.

Adrian Custer
Friday, 18 August 2006
Brussels, Belgium
